=== PAGE 1 ===
Fishhead Labs, LLC 
Cherished Pet Autopsy & Discovery Services 
Pathology Consulting Services 
cpads.fishheadlabs@gmail.com 
 
1 
3/28/2026 10:08 PM 
Submitted by:  
Dr. Rebecca Klipin 
2707 Biscayne Blvd. 
Miami, FL 33137 
 
Facility: Veterinary Emergency Group, Miami 
Accession #: F26-099 
Received: 03/06/2026 
Finalized: 3/28/2026 
Patient ID: 3o93nl6c 
Name: “Oreo” Wang 
Species: Feline (Ragdoll) 
Sex: Female/S 
Age: 7 years 
 
Autopsy Full Report
 
Submission:  
Received for autopsy was a cream and gray, 5.7 kg, female spayed, Ragdoll feline (Figure 1). The cat had 
a history of lethargy, inappetence, azotemia, glycosuria, persistent hyperkalemia, and possible small 
intestinal changes on ultrasound. The cat was received in good nutritional status with a body condition 
score of 7/9 and mild postmortem autolysis. The mucus membranes were pale pink (Figure 1). The 
conjunctiva were swollen and edematous.  Watery red fluid drained from the nares.  Multiple areas of 
the fur were shaved including the medial hindlimbs, abdomen, and right cervical skin. Two sutures were 
placed in the left cervical skin. Yellow tinged subcutaneous fluid expanded the inguinal regions.  
Entrance into the thoracic cavity was unremarkable; negative pressure was present in the thorax (Figure 
2). The diaphragm was intact.  Approximately 20 ml of dark red non-clotted fluid was present in the 
thoracic cavity (7.2 g/dL).  All lung lobes were diffusely mottled red and light red.  On cut sections, they 
were wet, heavy and oozed abundant watery fluid. The trachea was filled with dark red watery fluid 
(Figure 2).  The right thyroid gland was approximately half the size of the left thyroid gland.  Dark red 
watery fluid was noted in the pericardium.  The heart weighed 19.9 g. All valves, great vessels, and 
cardiac muscle were intact.  Scant amounts of dark red fluid was seen in the esophageal lumen.   
Examination of the abdomen revealed mildly dilated intestinal tract and straw colored, 5.9 g/dL clear 
fluid.  The gastric lumen to the proximal colon contained dark black watery to mucoid contents (Figure 
2).  The mesenteric lymph nodes were light red and small.  The pancreas had light pink homogenous 
lobules.  The liver was light brown with sharp lobular margins. Dark green bile filled the gallbladder and 
the common bile duct was patent. The spleen was dark red with sharp margins.  
In the retroperitoneal space, abundant adipose surrounded the kidneys.  The ureters, urinary bladder, 
and kidneys were intact.  Approximately 15 ml of pale-yellow urine was in the urinary bladder. The left 
kidney was slightly larger than the right kidney (Figure 2).  Both kidneys had pale cortices, but there was 
adequate corticomedullary distinction.  The adrenal glands were bilaterally symmetrical.  
The skull was intact with no evidence of trauma. The sinus cavities were clear, but the left side had mild 
amounts of dark red fluid.  
No additional gross abnormalities were noted in the remaining tissues.  
A full set of tissues was held in 10% neutral buffered formalin for examination under the microscope. 
Fresh segments of liver, spleen, kidney, lung, lymph node, small intestine, and large intestine are held 
for ancillary testing if needed.  Urine, abdominal fluid, and thoracic fluid were saved back as well.  

=== PAGE 2 ===
  
2 
3/28/2026 10:08 PM 
 
Histopathology: 
Sections of heart, thyroid glands, parathyroid glands, adrenal gland, mesenteric lymph node, lung lobes, 
liver, kidneys, spleen, pancreas, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine were examined for 
microscopic pathology. Sections of gastrointestinal tract were moderate to markedly autolyzed with loss 
of cellular detail. Significant changes will be delineated in the section below. 
Immunohistochemistry: 
1. Parvovirus (Panleukopenia virus; sections of intestine and stomach): The eight sections of 
gastrointestinal tract are immunonegative for parvovirus. There was nonspecific staining of 
gastric mucus cells and luminal debris.  
Morphologic diagnoses:
1. Kidneys (Figure 3): Cortical tubular degeneration and necrosis, multifocal, acute, moderate with 
abundant intratubular protein, rare cellular casts, and rare refractile intratubular crystals 
2. Lung: Pulmonary edema, diffuse, chronic mild with widespread intravascular fibrinous to 
fibrinohemorrhagic material (supportive of systemic disease, septicemia, or toxemia) 
3. Abdominal, thoracic, and pericardial cavities: Moderate protein effusions, diffuse, moderate 
(macroscopic finding) with splenic and gastric serosal mesothelial hypertrophy (reactive 
microscopic finding) 
4. Gastrointestinal tract: Intraluminal digested blood (melena), diffuse, severe (macroscopic 
finding with rare blood identified in the lumen histologically) 
5. Small intestine (Figure 4): Enteritis, lymphoplasmacytic, diffuse, chronic, mild to moderate with 
marked autolysis (please see comments) 
6. Stomach: Gastritis, lymphofollicular and lymphocytic, multifocal, chronic, mild (marked 
autolysis) 
7. Large intestine: Colitis, lymphocytic, diffuse, chronic, mild with marked autolysis (please see 
comments) 
8. Lymph node (mesenteric): Lymphoid follicular hyperplasia and lymphoid depletion, chronic, 
mild with sinusoidal histiocytosis, erythrocytes, and multifocal fibrinous material 
9. Liver: Vacuolar hepatopathy (glycogenosis/hydropic and lesser lipidosis), diffuse, chronic, mild 
with acute (perimortem) centrilobular to diffuse congestion 
10. Pancreas (Figure 5): Pancreatitis and peri-dochitis, lymphocytic, multifocal interstitial, chronic, 
mild  
11. Left nasal cavity: Presumptive red tinged edema fluid (macroscopic finding) 
12. Left cervical subcutaneous tissue: Suture associated hemorrhage, acute, multifocal, mild 
(macroscopic finding) 
Comment: 
The cause of Oreo’s presentation and decline was acute tubular necrosis which was supportive of an 
acute tubular injury (and acute kidney failure), as identified clinically. This is a nonspecific reaction 
pattern to a variety of nephrotoxic insults and can be due to ischemic injury due to obstruction, shock 
and hypotension, neoplasia, or infections. In Oreo, there was no significant renal inflammation 
(including no evidence of underlying chronic interstitial nephritis), no evidence of an infection, obvious 
obstruction, or neoplasia. Ischemia due to hypovolemia and shock was considered, associated with her 
grossly identified melena, her clinically described initial presentation with hematemesis, and her 

=== PAGE 3 ===
 
3 
3/28/2026 10:08 PM 
 
underlying gastrointestinal disease. Unfortunately, her gastrointestinal pathology was difficult to 
characterize due to the presence of marked autolysis with loss of cellular detail and variable 
loss/sloughing of the superficial mucosa in all segments of examined gastrointestinal tract. There was 
discernible mild to moderate lymphoplasmacytic lamina propria inflammation in all gastrointestinal 
segments and lymphofollicular aggregates in the stomach, findings supportive of chronic gastritis and 
enteropathy a nonspecific finding that can be associated with immune mediated factors, dietary 
intolerance or indiscretion, bacterial overgrowth, parasitism, or combinations thereof.   
Overt evidence of neoplasia, ulceration/erosion, perforation, obstruction, hemorrhage, necrosis, uremic 
mineralization, or infectious agents were not apparent in her gastrointestinal tract. However, an 
ulcerative/erosive process not identified and sampled during the postmortem gross examination, or not 
identified histologically due to the extensive autolysis, was possible and cannot be ruled out. 
Immunohistochemistry (IHC) for parvovirus (feline panleukopenia virus) was pursued to further 
investigate for this highly infectious potential cause of the grossly identified melena. All tested sections 
of the gastrointestinal tract were immunonegative.  
An intrinsic or extrinsic coagulopathy was considered for the diffuse gastrointestinal hemorrhage in 
Oreo. Abnormal clotting (and eventual hemorrhage if clotting occurs over a long period and with 
consumption of clotting factors) due to acute tubular injury and decreased kidney function can occur. 
Based on the degree of renal cortical tubular necrosis present and the lack of obvious tubular epithelial 
cell regeneration, I suspect that her renal tubular injury occurred after her initial presentation of 
hematemesis and was not the cause of her gastrointestinal hemorrhage. There were no identified fibrin 
thrombi, vascular changes, or other areas of ischemic damage to support her having renal failure 
associated hypercoagulability. Another intrinsic aberration of the clotting cascade was considered 
unlikely with hemorrhage restricted to the gastrointestinal tract and with no other history of abnormal 
hemorrhage outside of the recent presentation. The grossly identified dark red fluid within Oreo’s lungs 
and left nasal cavity was initially suspected to be hemorrhage. Histologically, in the lung sections, this 
fluid was confirmed to be edema fluid that was likely red tinged due to autolysis with no identified 
pulmonary hemorrhages, or significant hemorrhages in other examined tissues. Ingestion of an 
anticoagulant was considered as this can cause hemorrhage isolated to one organ system with minimal 
tissue changes.  
In dogs and cats, primary nephrotoxic differentials include ethylene glycol metabolites (antifreeze; rare 
crystals were seen histologically), lilies, antimicrobials (i.e. aminoglycosides, sulfonamides), 
chemotherapeutic agents (i.e. cisplatin, doxorubicin), heavy metals, vitamin D, venoms, and 
grapes/raisins (in dogs). Endogenous substances, including bile, hemoglobin, and myoglobin can also 
result in acute tubular injury. There was no evidence of any of these endogenous toxins in Oreo’s 
examination. If there is a toxic substance of reasonable suspicious based on history of exposure, then 
testing for this substance with fresh/frozen tissue would be an option. There is no gold standard test for 
analysis and verification of lily toxicity. The most positive confirmation involves the observation of the 
animal ingesting the lily, compatible clinical symptoms, compatible clinicopathologic findings, and 
supportive postmortem lesions in cats that die (including the observation of ingested plant material 
within the gastrointestinal tract (not identified in Oreo’s case), not just nephrotoxic tubular necrosis). 
Onset of anuric renal failure occurs 18-24 hours after exposure. Both the leaves and flowers are 
reportedly toxic.  

=== PAGE 4 ===
 
4 
3/28/2026 10:08 PM 
 
Toxicology testing options include a mass spectrometry toxicant general screen, which can detect a wide 
variety of toxicants (including ethylene glycol) but is not highly sensitive for some compounds and is 
often inconclusive, or more specific and directed toxin testing, if there is a history or exposure to a 
specific confirmed toxin in her environment (including an anticoagulant screening). Fresh tissues (kidney 
and/or liver) have been saved if you would like to pursue toxin testing. Please contact the laboratory for 
additional information or if you would like to pursue any toxicology testing in this case. All toxicology 
tests are done through an outside laboratory with shipping costs plus any accession fees and the cost of 
the testing, for these outside laboratory tests. 
In her liver, there was histologic evidence of mild hepatocellular vacuolar degeneration which was a 
mixture of hydropic/glycogenic and lesser lipidosis subtypes. The most common cause of hepatic 
lipidosis in cats is a primary disease process causing anorexia, particularly in an over conditioned cat. 
Environmental stress and diet changes can precede anorexia. Some cases are idiopathic. Other 
differentials include metabolic disturbances (such as diabetes mellitus) and less likely toxic injuries. 
Oreo’s pancreatic islets where within normal limits and her recent work up was not suggestive of 
diabetes. Hepatic glycogenosis is nonspecific and could result from a number of underlying intra or 
extrahepatic causes, including, but not limited to, endocrine disease (no obvious gross abnormalities 
identified in endocrine organs), low grade chronic toxin exposure, chronic low grade cholestasis, chronic 
drug administration (e.g. barbiturate therapy), or any condition associated with chronic stress (greater 
than 4 weeks duration). Chronic infections and neoplasia fall into the latter category. There was no 
evidence of hepatitis or other primary hepatobiliary pathology in Oreo’s examined liver. The cause of 
these vacuolar changes is unknown.  
Oreo had mild lymphocytic inflammation in the interstitium of her pancreas and around pancreatic 
ducts, consistent with mild chronic pancreatitis. Mild pancreatitis is commonly identified histologically in 
feline patients. However, this does not always correlate with clinical disease and in many cats can be an 
incidental finding of unknown clinical relevance. Oreo had no evidence of acute pancreatitis, and the 
relevance of the mild lymphocytic infiltrates is unknown. Histologically, one of Oreo’s thyroids was 
slightly larger than the other, this was interpreted as being within normal limits with no identified 
nodular expansion, inflammation, or neoplasia. The examined section of adrenal gland was within 
normal limits.  
Oreo’s heart was within normal limits with no identified histologic or gross abnormalities. There was no 
evidence of feline infectious peritonitis in the examined tissues. The tricavitary effusion was presumed 
to be due acute tubular injury with no other identified cause. The remainder of the findings were 
secondary to the described pathologies, were incidental, aging, and/or perimortem changes. Please 
contact me if you have any questions, if you would like to discuss this case, or if you would like to pursue 
toxicologic testing. We are sorry for the loss of your loved one and greatly appreciate being part of their 
afterlife care. 
Fresh frozen tissues will be retained for 3 months post autopsy date; additional targeted ancillary testing 
can be requested during this time. Photomicrographs and text are for report purposes only and not 
intended for use in publications or for reproduction of any kind without written consent from the 
author. 
References: 
Boysen, SR. 2009. Gastrointestinal hemorrhage. Small animal critical care medicine. 30: 566-570.  

=== PAGE 5 ===
 
5 
3/28/2026 10:08 PM 
 
Cianciolo, RE and FC Mohr. 2016. Urinary system: Chapt 4 in Jubb, Kennedy, and Palmer’s Pathology of 
Domestic Animals, 6th edition. Editor: Maxie MG, St. Louis, MO: Elsevier; Vol 2.: 376-464. 
Forman, MA. et al. 2021. ACVIM consensus statement on pancreatitis in cats. JVIM 35:703-723. 
Reported by:  
 
Susan B. Fogelson, MS, DVM, PhD, Dipl. ACVP 
CEO: Fishhead Labs, LLC  
Cherished Pet Autopsy & Discovery Services (CPADS) 
 
Lani R. Bower, MA, DVM, Dipl. ACVP 
Associate Pathologist, Fishhead Labs, LLC 
Cherished Pet Autopsy & Discovery Services (CPADS) 
  


=== PAGE 6 ===
 
8 
3/28/2026 10:08 PM 
 
 
Figure 3. Photomicrograph of 
the kidney. There was 
multifocal acute tubular 
necrosis and degeneration. This 
was characterized by proximal 
tubular epithelial cells that 
were swollen and vacuolated or 
sloughed, hypereosinophilic 
and with loss of nuclei (circles). 
There was frequently 
proteinaceous eosinophilic fluid 
within tubules as well as 
scattered tubules containing 
aggregated sloughed and 
necrotic epithelial cells (cellular 
casts; arrow). H&E, 121X 
magnification.    
 
Figure 4. Photomicrograph of 
the small intestine. All sections 
of gastrointestinal tract were 
autolyzed with this image 
showing one of the more intact 
regions of mucosa. There were 
discernible lymphocytes and 
plasma cells within the lamina 
propria with faint outlines of 
villi but loss of cellular detail. 
There were aggregates of blood 
breakdown products in the 
lumen (arrow). H&E, 107X 
magnification.   
 


=== PAGE 7 ===
 
9 
3/28/2026 10:08 PM 
 
 
Figure 5. Photomicrograph of 
the pancreas. There were rare 
mild lymphocytic infiltrates in 
the exocrine pancreatic 
interstitium (green circle) as 
well as in the peripheral 
connective tissue, including 
around pancreatic ducts (yellow 
circles). Pancreatic endocrine 
islets were within normal limits 
(arrow). H&E, 107X 
magnification.   
 
 

